In this video you're going to learn how to make HDTV requests from your no J.S. application which I'm
very excited to get to.
Why is this so important.
Because this is how your application is gonna be able to communicate with the outside world.
So if you want to get real time weather data into your app you're gonna have to make an HDTV request
if you want to send an email to someone from your application that's gonna be a another H TTP request.
And if you wanted to send someone a text message using something like the Twilio API that would also
be an HDTV request.
It is at the core of building real world applications that actually communicate with the outside world.
Now with those three examples the weather data emails sending and text message sending.
It's gonna be our node application making HDTV requests to another company's servers to get some task
done.
That means somewhere in our code we're gonna specify that you are well we want to make a request to.
This is provided via the api is documentation we're going to fire that request off sending some data
possibly and getting a response back.
So to get weather information I would send to the location I want the weather information for I would
then get back the weather information and I could use it in whatever way I wanted to.
Now let's go ahead and explore the weather API.
We're gonna use in this video if we head over to the browser we can find this over at Dark Sky dot net
so dark sky dot net is just a standard weather service you can use it to get your forecast.
They have maps they have timelines everything you'd expect from a weather service.
Now this is obviously for people who want to get the weather in their location.
It is a user friendly version of the data.
What we want is the raw data so we can use it in our application.
We can find that over at Dark Sky dot net forward slash Dev.
This is the developer portal for the dark sky application allowing us to integrate their weather data
into our app.
This is Andrew from the future with a very important update.
So if you pull up the dark sky Web site you'll notice this big banner right up top.
Yesterday March 30 first 20 20 Dark Sky was purchased by Apple.
Now dark sky posted a blog post.
You can see right here talking about the changes that are going to take place and there are a bunch
of them.
For example the Android apps getting gutted which is super unfortunate.
Another one of the side effects is that the dark sky API is no longer accepting new sign ups.
So right here you're not going to see the try for free button that I'm seeing on my screen.
So this is a breaking change for the class.
You won't be able to create an account like we're about to do in a couple of minutes.
Now don't worry I'm dropping everything to work on effects and the fix will be rolled out as quickly
as possible.
There was no notice ahead of time that things were going to change.
One morning I just woke up and all of a sudden the class was broken and there was no way for students
to get started with the dark sky API.
So let's talk about how I'll end up fixing this.
The fix will get rolled out in two phases.
The first thing I'll do is put together a written guide that you can use as you work through the next
several sections.
This written guide will talk about the changes you'll need to make in order to build the weather application
using a different weather API.
Now since that's just a written guide I should be able to get that out real quickly here in the next
several days.
Now once the written Guide is out I'll move on to phase two and I'll be rerecording the necessary parts
of the lesson so there's no need to work through a written guide.
You'll be able to watch the videos like you normally would though using a new API.
So that's the general process.
I hope to get the written guide out pretty quickly here and the videos will take a bit more time.
But the plan is to start working on those right after I release the written guide.
Now I'm still doing a bit of research on the API I'll end up replacing this one with the most likely
I'll end up going with open whether you can find that at open weather map.
Dot org.
Here you can create a free account no credit card required.
Then you can use the API to fetch real time weather data just like we do with dark sky.
Now I've already had a couple of students report that they used open weather as a replacement in this
section.
So if you head over to the API tab the endpoint that matches up closely with the dark sky API is the
current weather data one right here.
Now once I get the written guide together I'll show you how you can use this as a drop in replacement
over the next several sections.
So once again open weather is likely the API of that will end up watching too.
Now when I have the written guide in place that will be available in the course Q and A.
So let's talk about where you can find that I've put together a master thread for all the information
related to this breaking change.
So if you're watching this lecture on udemy that's lecture 31 making H TTP requests all you need to
do is head to the Q and A tab below the player from there instead of a viewing all lectures you would
go to current lecture then instead of sorting by the most recent you could sort by the most upvoted
end to the first one it should be this one right here posted by myself.
So if you click that it currently talks about the breaking change and it's mostly just information that
I already talked about.
I originally put this out yesterday just to get ahead of the problem as quickly as possible.
Once I have the written guide in place that will be available right here and once again I hope that's
within the next several days.
You can also stay up to date on this breaking change on Twitter so you could follow me at Andrew underscore
J underscore mead.
I put out a series of tweets related to this and I'll be updating them as I make progress.
So this is a super unfortunate situation.
Once again I had no notice that this was happening otherwise I would have had the changes recorded ahead
of time and there would have been no problem for the students.
Unfortunately that did not happen.
So here we are.
All I ask is for your patience and understanding and what I'll be doing is getting to work right away.
Putting together that written guide then rerecording the videos.
So stay tuned.
Check that Q and A thread and I'll be updating this video and the other ones as I start to make some
progress.
Alright that's it for now and for the moment I'll just leave the rest of the class in place as is so
if you'd like to try things with open weather map you are more than welcome to.
All right.
Talk to you soon to integrate this data into our application we are going to have to sign up for an
account.
Now the good news is that it's completely free to sign up and you don't have to provide anything like
a credit card.
One of the great things about the dark sky API is that they make it super easy to get started offering
you 1000 free whether requests every single day which is gonna be way more than will end up needing.
So let's go ahead and kick this process off.
You're going to need to sign up for a new account and as mentioned all you have to provide is an email
address and a password.
Then it's going to ask you to verify your email address.
Go ahead and take a moment to get that done and you can pause the video.
I'm going to take a moment to log into my existing account so I can show you the dashboard.
And here it is.
It's pretty bare bones but it contains everything we need to get started.
The first thing we have here is our accounts secret key.
This is a randomly generated string and we use this when we make each TTP requests to the dark sky API
from our node J.S. app.
This allows the dark sky API to identify our account and keep track of how many requests we're making.
Down below we can see where on the trial plan which as I mentioned gives us 1000 free requests every
single day and down below that we have a sample API call.
And this is just a U.R.L..
Now you'll notice that in this U.R.L. we have our secret key so its API dot dark sky dot net forward
slash forecast forward slash our secret key then forward slash the longitude and latitude for the location
we want to get the weather for let's go ahead and actually crack this open in a new tab to see what
we get back I'm gonna right click it and open it in a new tab so I can leave the old one still up and
what do I get.
Right here I get a bunch of data.
This is Jason data coming back and this contains all of the weather information for the provided location
when it comes to exchanging data between services Jason is the standard format for getting that done
and this is why we spent so much time working with Jason in the notes application before Jason is going
to come up over and over again throughout the course.
So when I go to dark sky dot net I get these same data but formatted to be used as a web site when I
use the API I get the Jason data back which is easier for a machine to use and we can use all of the
values inside of here to provide our users with a detailed forecast of their weather and that is exactly
what we're going to end up doing.
Let's go ahead and move into visual studio code and actually make the same request we're making here.
But from our application to start I'm going to delete everything in app dot and J S we have our little
set time out example and that helped us illustrate how asynchronous programming works.
But now it's time to move on to some more real world stuff.
Now to make HDTV requests there are a few different things we can do.
We can use the core node modules which we will cover a little bit later but those are very low level.
So it requires you to write a lot of unnecessary code to get everything working together.
There are a bunch of NPM modules that are essentially wrappers around of that core module making it
much easier and more streamlined to make HDTV requests.
And that's what we're gonna use throughout the course although as mentioned we will explore how to do
it the bare bones way shortly.
For now we're gonna use a single NPM module to make our HDTV requests and appropriately enough it is
called request.
You can find it by googling NPM request that is going to hopefully bring you to the package page right
here it is NPM J Ask.com forward slash package forward slash request.
We can visit that page to learn a bit more about what it's going to do for us and this like the other
packages we've used is super popular with about six million weekly downloads.
Now if we scroll down we can see all sorts of different examples as to how this can be used.
We're going to explore more advanced features like promises and async await a little later.
For now we're gonna get started with a nice simple example.
Let's go ahead and actually install this into our project so we can make a request from our node application
over inside of the terminal.
We first need to initialize weather app as an NPM project.
If you remember we got that done by running NPM in it from the root of the project.
So in this case from the weather app folder.
Now when we ran that command we got brought to a questionnaire asking us to fill out a ton of values.
And if you remember we used the default value for all of them.
So what I'm going to do is actually use control C to shut that down.
So I've done nothing then I'm going to use NPM in it again with the Y flag.
This just says answer yes to every single question using the default value.
So we don't have to go through that little questionnaire when we do this.
It automatically generates the package.
Dot Jason file with all of the default values in place.
We can now customize them to fit our needs and now we can run npm install commands to install the modules
we need from the terminal.
Let's go ahead and do just that.
I'm gonna use NPM AI which is short for install to install the request module at the latest version
two point eighty eight point zero.
Now I'm not using the G global flag since this is a module I want to require and use inside of my scripts.
So let's go ahead and get that done.
I'm gonna run the command that is going to install the request module then we're gonna move over to
app dot J S to load it in and use it.
So inside of app J s Let's go ahead and start by requiring request.
I'm gonna make a constant called request and I'm going to require the module we just installed which
was indeed a request.
And this is actually going to work because we installed the module we have package.
Jason we have package lock and Jason and in the node modules directory we have all of the necessary
modules to get request to work.
So we have request itself as well as all of its dependencies showing up inside of there.
Now that we have this in place let's go ahead and use it.
We need to work with that same you are L we just explored in the browser where we got the Jason data
back over in the browser.
I'm going to visit that tab where we were getting the Jason response and I'm going to grab the U.R.L..
This is the U R L that contains our secret key as well as that random set of coordinates which we will
learn how to change later.
So instead of visiting the are in the browser and seeing the data here we're going to visit it via the
request module and we'll get that data back as a variable we can access in our code.
So right here let's start by storing the U.R.L..
I'm going to create a concept you are all whose value will be a string and I am going to paste the entire
contents of that you are all right here.
We're not going to change anything for the moment we're just going to make their request so we get this
exact same data back but in our node app.
Now from here we can actually use request which is a function to make the request.
We are going to call it providing to it to arguments.
The first is an options object which outlines what we'd like to do.
That's where we provide the U.R.L. and other information.
The second argument is a function to run once we actually have that response.
So once the data is available for you to use in your application let's start with that first argument.
That is the options object right here.
We're going to set that up.
And as mentioned there is a single required property which is U.R.L. we have to provide the U.R.L. value
we want to use.
And I have that in a variable with the same name.
That's all for the first argument.
The second argument after that object is going to be a function.
This is the function to run when we're actually getting the response back.
So right here I'm going to set up that callback function and this function will run when either one
we have the weather data or two.
Something went wrong and we weren't able to get the weather data.
So maybe as an example your machine doesn't have a network connection.
Maybe you're not connected to the Internet.
In that case this request would indeed fail.
Now this function gets called with two arguments it gets called with an error.
If there was one otherwise this argument will be undefined and it gets called with the response where
we can actually access the response.
This includes all sorts of information.
And it does include the Jason response we need.
Now if you're not familiar with the ins and outs of each TTP request that's OK we're actually going
to dissect them in detail in just a couple of videos.
For now let's go ahead and try to use the response in our program to get started.
Let's go ahead and just dump the response object to the console.
So console dialog response.
This is going to contain everything about the response way more information than just that Jason data.
I'm gonna run the program from the terminal down below.
I will use clear to clear the terminal output then node app dot J asked to run our script now what's
going to happen is a ton of information is gonna get dumped to the terminal we can see there are hundreds
of lines of information response has a lot of properties we can use and those properties have other
properties and so on and so on.
Now if we start to scroll up we can see we have one really long string shown in green.
This is actually the string Jason data that we want to pass and access.
If we scroll up to the top of that string this is on the body property.
Now there are plenty of other properties for getting the response headers or the status code or that
you are L or any other information you would want about their request.
We'll explore those a bit later when we dissect HDTV requests.
For now let's just focus on that one property the body property which contains our data represented
as a Jason string.
Now we already worked with Jason so we know how to pass a Jason string right here.
I'm going to create a concept called data and I'm going to set it equal to we'll be using Jason dot
pass to pass our data and the data lives on response dot body.
Now we're gonna go ahead and actually work with that data.
I'm going to log the data object to the screen right here we have app J in its modified state.
Let's go ahead and rerun the program.
I can just use the backspace key to bring me back to the terminal down below and from here we're going
to rerun the script with our passing code in place.
So I'm gonna run node app dot J.
S this time we're still going to see a lot of stuff print but a lot less.
Now if we scroll up we're gonna see an endless amount of information.
For example we have all of these objects.
I see properties related to wind speed and wind gusts.
I have temperature min and max for the day.
All sorts of useful forecast information and we'll explore more of this in the next video for now to
wrap up I just want to access a single property that is the currently property so data dot currently
this contains current forecast information.
And if we rerun the program this time we're gonna see a lot less output.
We have what maybe 20 lines.
We have a summary.
So wherever this location is it is indeed clear.
And I have information about things like the temperature it is currently fifty four point two degrees.
I have things about the humidity pressure wind speed all current weather information for that location.
So now that we have this in place we have indeed accessed our first H TTP API from node j s allowing
us to pull in outside information into our applications.
I'm excited to continue exploring HDTV requests asynchronous node and the weather API in the next video.
So let's go ahead and jump right in.